# Issues related to Python CLIs

### - `DirtyRepository: The repository is dirty. Please use the "git" command to clean it.`

Context: a renku/ omnibenchmark related command is run and returns an exit status with the above message.

Explanation: Renku (and Omnibenchmark) commands can only be run when there is no unsaved work.

Solution: run `renku_save()` (Python) or `renku save` (Bash) and rerun your command.

---

### Issues related to `omni_obj.update_object(all=True)`

Context: an error is raised when running the above command and no input data is imported. 

Explanation: there might be different reasons; the orchestrator is not set up, there is no input data,...

Solutions: depending on the problem, try the followings: 

- check that an orchestrator is set up for your Omnibenchmark: https://github.com/omnibenchmark/omni_essentials/blob/main/general/benchmark_categories.json

---

### - `omni_obj.update_result_dataset()` > `ParameterError: Invalid parameter value - These datasets don't exist:` OR `omni_obj.create_dataset()` > `Dataset zhengmix4eq-filterhvg-pinned already taken. Please use a different name.`

Context: Error or warning message when creating a dataset in an Omnibenchmark project

Explanation: the name is already taken or has conflicting dataset name. Typically, a subset of another name that our name matching algorithms could mix. Example: "dataset" vs "dataset-updated". 

Solution: change the `name:` in your `config.yml` to resolve the conflict; try to avoid spaces and `-` and rather use `_` and more descriptive names.

---

### - `GitError: Cannot commit changes`

Context: error when running a workflow. 

Explanation: It is possible that some files were generated in your `data` folder, where the output of your workflow will be moved. For reproducibility and tracing purpose, Renku doesn't allow files generation into your output `data` folder, if they were not generated by a Renku workflow. 

Solution: remove the problematic files from your `data` folder and run again your workflow command. 

---

### - `FileNotFoundError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: '/opt/conda/lib/python3.9/site-packages/omniValidator/schemas/...'`

Explanation: you are using an older version of `omniValidator`. 

Solution: upgrade `omniValidator` to > 0.0.19


---

### - `InterpreterError: Interpreter could not be identified from extention . Please specify command explicitly.`

Context: error when calling `get_omni_object_from_yaml('src/config.yaml')`

Explanation: your main script likely lacks a complete name (e.g. `.R`, `.py`).

Solution: give an explicit name to your script (e.g. `run_method.R`) and to your `config.yaml` file (`script:` field). 


---

### - One or several of my data files are only 3 lines long but the initial content is not here

Context: one or several of your data files contain a structure of type: 

```
version https://git-lfs.github.com/spec/v1
oid sha256:XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
size XXXX
```

Explanation: one or several of your data files have been stored on Git LFS. By default, all large files are pushed there to save memory. More information on the [renku documentation](https://renku.readthedocs.io/en/0.12.4/topic-guides/data.html).

Solution: on an interactive session, check the `fetch automatically LFS data` option. In a terminal, you can also fetch the data with `git lfs pull`. 
